TrollBridge Network Authentication
v0.6.0
Copyright 2004 by Brian C. Lane <bcl@brianlane.com>
All Rights Reserved


What Is TrollBridge?
--------------------
TrollBridge is a set of scripts that allows you to capture unauthorized
network access and authenticate it before the client is allowed to pass
through the gateway. It is based on the firewall script from NoCatSplash,
with a different way of processing captured sessions.

It allows you to setup authorization on your wireless (or even wired,
TrollBridge doesn't care what kind of client is using it) network, creating
a HotSpot for your business, school or home.

TrollBridge is a set of tools that allow you to create a custom
authorizations system. It takes a little bit of work to get it installed
(hence no configure/install script or rpm). In its basic form it does no
authentication, it just displays a login screen and accepts anything that
the client inputs.


How Does It Work?
-----------------
A new set of iptables rules is installed that totally locks out access to
the internet interface from the outside interface. This rule set redirects
incoming web requsts from their original destination to port 5280 on the
TrollBridge machine.

An Apache virtual host listening on 5280 then redirects the client to a
login screen, while saving the original destination.

The login screen authorizes the client and adds the client's IP address to
the iptables rules and redirects the client to their original destination.


How Do I Install It?
--------------------
TrollBridge requires some external programs in order to work properly. I
will not go into details on their setup, except where it specifically
relates to TrollBridge.


Hardware
The hardware that I am running my demo system on has 2 ethernet interfaces.
One is connected to my home lan (which is then connected to the internet).
The other interface is connected to the switch on a Netgear wireless router.


Wireless Router
The router has its DHCP server turned off. It also has ESSID broadcast
turned off to slightly hide its presence. I have left its IP address set to
the default (when I tried to change it to something in the 10.x.x.x range, 
everything broke so I took the path of least resistance and left it at its
default). Don't forget to change the default admin password on the wireless
device!


DHCP
The TrollBridge system should have a DHCP server setup on the outside
network interface. Setup for dhcpd is fairly simple, modify the default
dhcpd.conf file and start up the service. See if your clients can get an IP
address.

On my system I also run DNS on the same system, so the dhcp server points
the clients to the DNS service. I have about 100 names for the IPs that I
serve up, just for fun.


DNS
I am using Bind 9, with a local top level domain, but you should be able to
get away with just using a caching server, as it is configured by default.


Apache
Here's where the first customization comes in. Take a look at the file
'httpd.conf' included in this package. You need to add this to your Apache
configuration so that it will redirect the captured session to your
TrollBridge machine and include the original target.

Change the IP address in the redirect to the IP address of your outside
interface (I recommend using IPs instead of names, just in case DNS isn't
working right for that client).

Copy the skeleton.cgi script to wherever you point the 5280 redirect
towards. I recomend using the SSL section of the server in order to protect
any login details that are sent by the client.

TrollBridge service
The trollbridge service runs at bootup from the /etc/init.d/ directory. It
turns off any iptables that have been previously setup and runs the trolld
process which handles adding and removing clients from the iptables rules.
This is the only part of TrollBridge that must run as root. It does a
minimum of tasks to help ensure that it is as secure as possible.

1. Turn off current iptables startup script:
   chkconfig iptables off
   service iptables stop

2. Install the trollbridge startup script in /etc/init.d/
   Copy 'trollbridge.sysconfig' to /etc/sysconfig/trollbridge and edit it

   This file controls the iptables filter setup and is basically the same as
   the NoCatSplash config file that it is based on. The file is well
   commented, read through it and fill in the correct values for your setup.
   I recommend using IP addresses for all system references since you cannot
   guarentee that the client will have its DNS working correctly.

   If you change the GatewayPort you will need to make sure it is also
   changed in the Apache httpd.conf redirect additions.

   Copy the 'trollbridge' script to /etc/init.d/ and activate it:
   chkconfig trollbridge on
   service trollbridge start

TrollBridge should now be up and running. Try accessing an internet webpage
from a client system. It should get redirected to the example TrollBridge
capture page and when you click on 'Login' it should redirect to the
original site.



Where Has It Been Deployed?
---------------------------
My house. And it will be demoed at the KPLUG table at Linux Fest NW 2004.


Troubleshooting
---------------
Trouble? There should be no trouble :)

Here are some basic things to confirm that things are working:

1. Can your client get an IP address from the DHCP server?

2. Did they get a DNS server address as well?

3. Can clients get to the default page for the TrollBridge web server?
   Access to the server's webpage is not blocked and clients do not need to 
   authenticate in order to view it.

4. Can the client ssh to the TrollBridge server? SSH is open and should work
   just fine.

5. Is the webserver redirecting correctly? Check the server log files and 
   possibly turn on the RedirectLog in the httpd.conf additions for port
   5280

6. Is trolld processing the add message? Check the /var/log/trolld.log file
   for errors.

7. Look at the output of iptables -L -n, you should see your clients who
   have been authorized listed in the 'tb' section.

You can use the troll_cmd script to manually add and delete IP addresses
from the authorized client list. Its usage is 'troll-cmd add IP' and
'troll-cmd del IP'

If you find bugs, add features or have questions please feel free to email
me at bcl@brianlane.com

